Add PrometheusAgent to Getting Started docs (#5492)
prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator: Documentation/user-guides/prometheus-agent.md

---
weight: 151
toc: true
title: Prometheus Agent
menu:
    docs:
        parent: user-guides
lead: ""
images: []
draft: false
description: Guide for running Prometheus in Agent mode
---

> Since Prometheus-Operator `v0.64.0` it is also possible to run Prometheus in Agent mode.

Reviewer: Should we change this to `v0.64.1`?

As mentioned in [Prometheus's blog](https://prometheus.io/blog/2021/11/16/agent/), Prometheus Agent
is a deployment model optimized for environments where all collected data is forwarded to

> a long-term storage solution, e.g. Cortex or Thanos, and local Prometheus do not need storage or rule evaluation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a long-term storage solution, e.g. Cortex, Thanos or local Prometheus that do not need storage or rule evaluation.
```

> To make it easier to upgrade from an older version to `v0.64.0` or higher, the operator is capable of running without

Reviewer: `v0.64.1`?

Author: Decide to omit the version altogether 😬

> the permissions to reconcile the PrometheusAgent CR. So to use the new CR, make sure to update the operator permissions to allow reconciliations of the new CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the permissions to reconcile the PrometheusAgent CR. So to use the new PrometheusAgent CR make sure to update the operator permissions to allow reconciliations of the new CR.
```

Author: Ended up rephrasing it completely following Simon's suggestion, what do you think?

    app.kubernetes.io/name: prometheus-operator
    app.kubernetes.io/version: 0.65.1
  name: prometheus-operator
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - monitoring.coreos.com
  resources:
  - alertmanagers
  - alertmanagers/finalizers
  - alertmanagers/status
  - alertmanagerconfigs
  - prometheuses
  - prometheuses/finalizers
  - prometheuses/status
  - prometheusagents
  - prometheusagents/finalizers
  - prometheusagents/status
  - thanosrulers
  - thanosrulers/finalizers
  - thanosrulers/status
  - scrapeconfigs
  - servicemonitors
  - podmonitors
  - probes
  - prometheusrules
  verbs:
  - '*'
- apiGroups:
  - apps
  resources:
  - statefulsets
  verbs:
  - '*'
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resources:
  - configmaps
  - secrets
  verbs:
  - '*'
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resources:
  - pods
  verbs:
  - list
  - delete
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resources:
  - services
  - services/finalizers
  - endpoints
  verbs:
  - get
  - create
  - update
  - delete
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resources:
  - nodes
  verbs:
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resources:
  - namespaces
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
  - networking.k8s.io
  resources:
  - ingresses
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
```

> Similarly to Prometheus, Prometheus Agent will require permission to scrape targets. Because of this, we will create a new service account for the Agent with the necessary permissions to scrape targets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to Prometheus, Prometheus Agent will also require permission to scrape targets. For this we will create a new service account for the Agent with the necessary permissions to scrape targets.
```

> Similarly to Prometheus, Prometheus Agent will require permission to scrape targets. Because of this, we will create a new service account for the Agent with the necessary permissions to scrape targets.

Reviewer 2: do we really need a new service account and clusterrole?

Author: Yeah, I guess the service account/clusterrole from the getting started guide works too. Should we not mention that at all?

Start with the ServiceAccount, ClusterRole and ClusterRoleBinding:

```yaml mdox-exec="cat example/rbac/prometheus-agent/prometheus-service-account.yaml"
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: prometheus-agent
```

```yaml mdox-exec="cat example/rbac/prometheus-agent/prometheus-cluster-role.yaml"
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: prometheus-agent
rules:
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources:
  - services
  - endpoints
  - pods
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources:
  - configmaps
  verbs: ["get"]
- apiGroups:
  - networking.k8s.io
  resources:
  - ingresses
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
- nonResourceURLs: ["/metrics"]
  verbs: ["get"]
```

```yaml mdox-exec="cat example/rbac/prometheus-agent/prometheus-cluster-role-binding.yaml"
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: prometheus-agent
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: prometheus-agent
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: prometheus-agent
  namespace: default
```

> Lastly, we can deploy the Agent. The `spec` field is very similar to the Prometheus CRD but the features that aren't applicable to the agent mode (like alerting, retention, Thanos, ...) are not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can deploy the Agent. The `spec` field is very similar to the Prometheus CRD but the features that aren't applicable to the agent mode (like alerting, retention, Thanos, ...) are not available.
```

Author: Personally, I prefer it as it is now 😅. Makes it clear that the guide is finished

```yaml mdox-exec="cat example/rbac/prometheus-agent/prometheus.yaml"
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: PrometheusAgent
metadata:
  name: prometheus-agent
spec:
  replicas: 2
  serviceAccountName: prometheus-agent
  serviceMonitorSelector:
    matchLabels:
      team: frontend

> ```

Author: done
